OK so we're going to talk about the description of users section.
You guys can call this really whatever you want.
This section is entirely optional.
This is something that in my experience your developer will love you if you do make.
I mean if you don't make it it's not really a big deal.
The entire point of this is that it's supposed to be helpful to understand the entirety of the application.
It can help designers or developers think through the specific problems as they relate to your users
and allows them to relay feedback back to you specifically saying hey this might not work or maybe you
should think about adding this.
So the way that I typically do this is I just try to imagine who is this app for and who's going to
be using it when you came up with the idea for the Web site or the mobile application or whatever it
is that you're building.
You probably had some type of an idea of who it was for or who's going to be using it.
Now this could be front facing customers.
This could also be an internal application for employees.
But the point here is to list out all of the types of people you think are going to be using it.
And then just kind of describe them very quickly.
It's really up to the developer designer or the contractor or whoever you're working with to take that
information and do what they can with it.
But it kind of helps because they might have actually gone through the entire description and thought
this was for someone else.
So the way they usually just do this is I just really like to list it out I'll just list out say like
one two and three if I can think of three types of users you get two and two and then I like to just
list out who I imagine using and I focus on distinct differences between user groups so I don't want
to say for instance I'm not going to cater this to a college student who lives in a dorm or a college
student who lives at home.
Those are very are too similar.
I really want to separate this out by big differences.
So in the case of the lovely application that we're using as an example I wouldn't want to say you know
a 35 year old who lives in the ER in a big city and is frustrated with other applications.
So try your best not to double up on these.
Just try your best to think of what user groups you can.
So I'll walk you through how I would do it for the lovely application.
And you can kind of make your kind of piece it together for whatever you're building.
So in this case we're building a deeding application in this theoretical spec sheet.
So one thing is one group is going to be female and one group is going to be male.
Right.
That's a big enough difference to list these as two separate users.
What I would say is a male and I'll put the age range of say whatever it was 30 to 40 with some familiarity
with web tools and other dating applications.
Well say has smart phone not an expert at it and so that is pretty much the main user in this description
and this theoretical model.
There really aren't a wide variety of different types of users.
In other applications there's a lot of different types of users you could possibly think of.
In this case it's actually quite simple but I'm just going to show you this that this is typically how
we kind of list them out.
I say familiarity with web tools because it's always helpful to let the developer know how familiar
or the designer.
How familiar are they with using basic web applications.
You know most people use Facebook now.
Not a lot of people use Facebook as well as say yik yak or any of the more popular applications that
haven't yet gotten mainstream adoption.
So I say that and I say familiar with other dating applications I could even say you know familiar with
specific types of dating applications and then say have a smartphone that's helpful because they're
building a web site.
And you say they have a smartphone than you might think about making sure that this is smartphone friendly.
Now if you said that they had for some reason your building application for say like a feature phone
well then they need to build this entirely differently.
But then I say not an expert at it and kind of what that means is that we should probably focus on things
that are buttons and processes that are more common they're simpler or they're easier to understand
not using for instance intuitive gestures.
A lot of these newer applications that go after younger user base Well you know you open it with Sabai
swiping your finger or you use finger gestures to control information.
Now people who are not great with their phones a lot of them struggle with that.
I you know I'm in my mid 20s and I even struggle with some of these applications that just assume that
everyone knows what three lines are the grab three lines that means a tray opens.
These are examples that people use that not everybody understands but you have to understand what your
user group is going to look like.
And writing this out definitely helps.
And then here honestly I would just say female and then same thing but I might change a little bit of
it so I could say female age range 30 to 40 30 to 40 some familiarity as well.
But no familiarity with other dating sites.
Now why do I put this theoretically in your head.
You might be thinking to yourself I'm going to go after a group of people that has no familiarity with
other dating sites meeting like maybe you're not going to go run ads on OK Cupid.
In this case you know we're trying to think of things that are completely unrelated as advertising channels.
So in that case you don't know if they have experience with other dating sites so it's helpful to assume
that they don't.
In that case that means we're not going to be using the developer should know not to use defaults or
type of our concepts that are used in other dating applications that wouldn't make sense outside of
dating Web sites or dating mobile apps.
So that I could say has a smartphone and is an expert with it.
OK so now we know we have a mixed user base or whatever it is you can swap male and female not trying
to say that females are better or smartphones.
And then the last thing you could say you could probably try to characterize a different user group
and say and they're free to use some of their concepts ideas and techniques in your application.
It also means that if they're using multiple ones that kind of opens the door to whether or not you
want to use integrations whether or not you think that you could integrate some other application into
yours maybe they can log in with the information from the other application or import that information.
We could say something like male or female already has a mobile application.
Datings it interested.
Using multiple once loved ones.
OK so what would a designer developer contracter use with that information.
They might just assume when you see this that means that they already have familiarity with other applications
so they should take a look at the other applications and see what they do well or have some type of
interaction with it.
OK.
And so here are some questions as you're writing the section that could help you kind of get a jumpstart.
So who's going to use this application.
What users are going to be the first to use it and who are the first advertisements so that's a helpful
way of teasing out who your potential customers are Who's to be the first to do you imagine the first
group using it as well.
Often when you're building an application or a business there are multiple groups that are going to
find it appealing but there's you know one group that finds the most appealing and often that group
is smaller than the other ones but those are your initial user base.
So it's helpful to plan for that user base sometimes and then later plan to expand it as it goes into
other types of groups.
There were the first year advertisements Now think about how if you did plan to advertise and promote
who is who are you going to go after who what group is the easiest to reach and who do you think you're
going to be effective in advertising to.
You should probably consider that group and consider what their needs are and what their capabilities
are.
Do you have multiple distinct groups now that just means try to think about if there are big differences
between the groups you see.
You should at least two user types.
You know a lot of times you have 10 different types of users and you can honestly divide them up by
job type income.
You can even do ethnicity and race you could say familiarity with Web sites.
You can even.
It's important to say things like internet connection to the billing a web application and it's a going
to be going after an international crowd.
Keep in mind that not everyone has the same speed on their computer.
So image heavy Web sites for instance have a very hard time taking off.
In countries of slower Internet these are all things that you should take into consideration.
And when you list out these users it kind of helps you map this out.
And it should help a good developer or designer understand what are kind of the no nos should do and
what are the best practices.
Other things to look at or think about how Internet and mobile phone savvy are they kind of covered
that before how busy are they.
Now if you expect to have a user base that's very busy then you might want to have an application that's
very simple very easy to use if you have what's called a captive audience a group that is very invested
in what you're doing maybe you're selling something that's very expensive or takes a lot of time to
get into.
Well then you can raise the level of complexity because those people are more invested in figuring out
how to use your application.
But if it's something that's free that you just want to give to as many people as possible you might
want to consider how busy they are and how invested they are and then if they are very busy and minimally
invested you need to make it simple.
Otherwise they're not going to stay in the app or come back to it.
How often do you think they'll check into the app.
That's helpful because that will help you kind of plan future feature sets but also understanding things
like server load it helps you understand kind of what are the basic needs.
How often are things updated etc etc..
And the last thing they familiar with similar apps if they are familiar similar apps that means that
you can always go and look at comparable applications and borrow what they're doing and if they're not
then you're kind of starting from scratch so you're going to have to use basic web conventions and best
practices.
OK so if you guys have any questions clarifications for this section of the spec sheet post in the group
discussion.
You can always just message me otherwise I'll see you in the next lecture.